README.md, before:

# Configuration for Ubuntu 23.04 Gnome minimal

My personal configuration for [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/) 23.04 minimal with [Gnome 4](https://www.gnome.org/) desktop. You can download the official ISO [here](https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop). This configuration was originaly for [Manjaro](https://manjaro.org/) 22.1.3 minimal with [Gnome 4](https://www.gnome.org/) desktop, but I left Manjaro for Ubuntu on 30 July 2023 because Manjaro was too unstable in my opinion. You can find a git tag ([v0.1](https://github.com/le-chartreux/linux-config/tree/v0.1)) at the last commit of the Manjaro support.

The configuration consists of Shell commands, making it easy to install and customize without having to navigate through settings. Simply copy and paste the commands below. Please note that some part still needs to be done on graphical utilities.

To ensure a smooth setup, I recommend starting with the tools from the [Utilities](#utilities) and [Installers](#installers) sections as they may be required for other parts of the configuration.

## Table of contents

<!-- TOC -->

- [Configuration for Ubuntu 23.04 Gnome minimal](#configuration-for-ubuntu-2304-gnome-minimal)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Global](#global)
    - [Installers](#installers)
      - [apt](#apt)
      - [snap](#snap)
      - [Gnome Software](#gnome-software)
      - [pip](#pip)
      - [pipx](#pipx)
    - [System](#system)
    - [Text](#text)
      - [Spellcheckers](#spellcheckers)
      - [Fonts](#fonts)
  - [Gnome 4](#gnome-4)
    - [Vanilla desktop](#vanilla-desktop)
    - [Extensions](#extensions)
      - [Blur my Shell](#blur-my-shell)
      - [Caffeine](#caffeine)
      - [Dash to Dock](#dash-to-dock)
      - [Disable unredirect fullscreen windows](#disable-unredirect-fullscreen-windows)
      - [Freon](#freon)
      - [Gnome 4x UI Improvements](#gnome-4x-ui-improvements)
      - [Just Perfection](#just-perfection)
      - [Panel corners](#panel-corners)
      - [Resource Monitor](#resource-monitor)
      - [Rounded Window Corners](#rounded-window-corners)
      - [RunCat](#runcat)
      - [Transparent Window Moving](#transparent-window-moving)
    - [Theme](#theme)
    - [Keybindings](#keybindings)
  - [Dev](#dev)
    - [Git](#git)
    - [GitHub](#github)
    - [Applications](#applications)
      - [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code)
      - [Pycharm pro](#pycharm-pro)
    - [Zsh](#zsh)
      - [Oh My Zsh](#oh-my-zsh)
  - [Misc applications](#misc-applications)
    - [Social](#social)
      - [Discord](#discord)
    - [Graphisme](#graphisme)
      - [Gimp](#gimp)
    - [VPN](#vpn)
      - [Proton VPN](#proton-vpn)
    - [Utilities](#utilities)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Global

### Installers

#### apt

The package manager for [Debian](https://www.debian.org/)-based distro (so Ubuntu too).

```sh
# update system
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade && sudo apt autoremove
```

#### [snap](https://ubuntu.com/core/services/guide/snaps-intro)

The official app store provided by [Canonical](https://canonical.com/), where developers can deploy their applications.

```sh
# update
sudo snap refresh
```

#### [Gnome Software](https://apps.gnome.org/app/org.gnome.Software/)

The official Gnome installer, that looks better than the [Canonical's snap store](https://ubuntu.com/core/docs/store-overview) while providing exacly the same apps.

```sh
sudo apt install gnome-software
```

#### [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/)

Package installer for [Python](https://www.python.org/). Many applications rely on it, install it to use them.

```sh
sudo apt install python3-pip
```

#### [pipx](https://pypa.github.io/pipx/)

The recommended method for installing [Python](https://www.python.org/) applications from [pip](#pip). It provides the ability to install each application inside a separate isolated virtual environment, preventing any conflicts or interference with your system's [Python](https://www.python.org/) environment. This approach helps keep your system clean and organized while managing [Python](https://www.python.org/) applications.

```sh
sudo apt install pipx
```

### System

```sh
# enabling TRIM (for better SSD performances)
sudo systemctl enable fstrim.timer
sudo systemctl start fstrim.timer
```

### Text

#### Spellcheckers

```sh
# english
sudo apt install aspell-en
sudo apt install libmythes-1.2-0
sudo apt install mythes-en-us 
sudo snap install languagetool
# french
sudo apt install aspell-fr mythes-fr
```

#### Fonts

```sh
# glacial indifference (a cool font)
wget https://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/download/glacial-indifference --output-document=glacial-indifference.zip
unzip glacial-indifference.zip -d glacial-indifference
font-manager --install glacial-indifference/*.otf
rm -r glacial-indifference.zip glacial-indifference
```

## [Gnome 4](https://www.gnome.org/)

### Vanilla desktop

To get the vanilla Gnome 4 desktop (without the Ubuntu-look) on top of which the riced desktop will be build, execute the following commands:

```sh
sudo apt install gnome-session
sudo apt install gnome-software
# then reboot your computer and select 'Gnome' as a desktop at the logging page instead of 'Ubuntu'
```

### Extensions

```sh
# tool to manage extensions
sudo apt install gnome-tweaks
# tool to install from cli
pipx install gnome-extensions-cli --system-site-packages 
```

#### [Blur my Shell](https://github.com/aunetx/blur-my-shell)

Add a blur effect.

```sh
gext install blur-my-shell@aunetx
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/blur-my-shell/panel/blur false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/blur-my-shell/overview/style-components 3
```

#### [Caffeine](https://github.com/eonpatapon/gnome-shell-extension-caffeine)

Pause screen saving.

```sh
gext install caffeine@patapon.info
```

#### [Dash to Dock](https://micheleg.github.io/dash-to-dock/)

Change the dock to a nicer one.

```sh
gext install dash-to-dock@micxgx.gmail.com
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/multi-monitor true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/intellihide-mode "'ALL_WINDOWS'"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/animation-time 0.1
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/hide-delay 0.1
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/show-apps-at-top true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/show-trash false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/hot-keys false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/middle-click-action "'launch'"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/shift-middle-click-action "'quit'"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/custom-theme-shrink true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/disable-overview-on-startup true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/apply-custom-theme false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/custom-background-color true
dconf write /org/gtk/gtk4/settings/color-chooser/selected-color "(true, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 1.0)"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/transparency-mode "'DYNAMIC'"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/min-alpha 0
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/max-alpha 1
```

#### [Disable unredirect fullscreen windows](https://github.com/kazysmaster/gnome-shell-extension-disable-unredirect)

Patch glitches on fullscreen (e.g. with the dock not hiding).

```sh
gext install unredirect@vaina.lt
```

#### [Freon](https://github.com/UshakovVasilii/gnome-shell-extension-freon)

Display system temperatures (CPU, disk, video card), voltage and fan RPM. I use it to display the maximum temperature of the CPUs.

```sh
gext install freon@UshakovVasilii_Github.yahoo.com 
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/hot-sensors "['__max__']"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/show-rotationrate false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/show-voltage false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/show-power false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/group-rotationrate false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/group-voltage false
```

#### [Gnome 4x UI Improvements](https://github.com/axxapy/gnome-ui-tune)

Improve the overview, mainly bigger workspaces thumbnails and search box hidden when unused.

```sh
gext install gnome-ui-tune@itstime.tech
```

#### [Just Perfection](https://gitlab.gnome.org/jrahmatzadeh/just-perfection)

Hide some UI elements, change the behavior and customize the desktop.

```sh
gext install just-perfection-desktop@just-perfection
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/theme true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/activities-button false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/app-menu-label false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/world-clock false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/weather false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/events-button false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/startup-status 0
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/animation 4
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/notification-banner-position 2
```

#### [Panel corners](https://github.com/aunetx/panel-corners)

Add round corners to the screen.

```sh
gext install panel-corners@aunetx
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/panel-corners/screen-corners true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/panel-corners/panel-corners true
```

#### [Resource Monitor](https://github.com/0ry0n/Resource_Monitor/)

Show some useful information about the system (RAM & swap usage here).

```sh
gext install Resource_Monitor@Ory0n
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/cpustatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/decimalsstatus true
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/iconsposition "'left'"
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/diskspacestatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/diskstatsstatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/gpustatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/netethstatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/netwlanstatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/ramunit "'perc'"
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/swapstatus true
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/swapunit "'perc'"
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/thermalcputemperaturestatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/thermalgputemperaturestatus false
```

#### [Rounded Window Corners](https://github.com/yilozt/rounded-window-corners)

Add rounded corners to apps.

```sh
gext install rounded-window-corners@yilozt
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/rounded-window-corners/global-rounded-corner-settings "{'padding': <{'left': <uint32 1>, 'right': <uint32 1>, 'top': <uint32 1>, 'bottom': <uint32 1>}>, 'keep_rounded_corners': <{'maximized': <false>, 'fullscreen': <false>}>, 'border_radius': <uint32 12>, 'smoothing': <uint32 1>, 'enabled': <true>}"
```

#### [RunCat](https://github.com/win0err/gnome-runcat)

Indicator of CPU usage with a cat whose running speed depends on CPU load.

```sh
gext install runcat@kolesnikov.se
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/runcat/idle-threshold 15
```

#### [Transparent Window Moving](https://github.com/Noobsai/transparent-window-moving)

Makes the window semi-transparent when moving or resizing.

```sh
gext install transparent-window-moving@noobsai.github.com
```

### Theme

```sh
# Sweet-Dark-v40
gnomelooks get https://www.gnome-look.org/p/1253385/
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface gtk-theme Sweet-Dark-v40
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.preferences theme Sweet-Dark-v40
gsettings set org.gnome.shell.extensions.user-theme name Sweet-Dark-v40
# Sweet-cursors
gnomelooks get https://www.gnome-look.org/p/1393084/
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface cursor-theme Sweet-cursors
```

### Keybindings

```sh
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings close "['<Shift><Super>q']"
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings begin-move "['<Super>m']"
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings maximize "['<Super>Up']"
# use parameters to add 'open terminal' on super+return
# use parameters to add 'disable F1' on F1 (command ':')
```

## Dev

### [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

```sh
git config --global user.name "XXX"
git config --global user.email "XXX@XXX"
git config --global core.editor nano
```

### [GitHub](https://github.com/)

```sh
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your-gh-email@something"
wl-copy < ~/.ssh/id_*.pub
```

Then add it [here](https://github.com/settings/ssh/new).

### Applications

#### [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

Best text editor in my opinion: nice looking, easy and tons of plugins.

```sh
sudo snap install code --classic
```

#### [Pycharm pro](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)

Best Python IDE in my opinion.

```sh
sudo snap install pycharm-professional --classic
```

### [Zsh](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Zsh)

Shell with a lot of cool features and customization.

#### [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/)

Framework to manage [Zsh](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Zsh) configuration.

TODO

## Misc applications

### Social

#### [Discord](https://discord.com/)

```sh
sudo snap install discord
# betterdiscord
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:chronobserver/betterdiscordctl
sudo apt update
sudo apt install betterdiscordctl
betterdiscordctl -i snap install
```

### Graphisme

#### [Gimp](https://www.gimp.org/)

```sh
sudo apt install gimp
```

### VPN

#### [Proton VPN](https://protonvpn.com/)

```sh
pamac update --force-refresh
pamac build protonvpn
```

### Utilities

```sh
# allows to get content from the web
# maybe you will need to downgrade libcurl before: sudo apt install libcurl4=7.88.1-8ubuntu2
sudo apt install curl
# allows to copy texts and images to clipboard in command line
sudo apt install wl-clipboard
# allows to manage fonts
sudo apt install font-manager
# allows to install gnome themes
pipx install gnomelooks
```

Commit message:

[doc] setup of freon (needs lm-sensors)

README.md, after:

# Configuration for Ubuntu 23.04 Gnome minimal

My personal configuration for [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/) 23.04 minimal with [Gnome 4](https://www.gnome.org/) desktop. You can download the official ISO [here](https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop). This configuration was originaly for [Manjaro](https://manjaro.org/) 22.1.3 minimal with [Gnome 4](https://www.gnome.org/) desktop, but I left Manjaro for Ubuntu on 30 July 2023 because Manjaro was too unstable in my opinion. You can find a git tag ([v0.1](https://github.com/le-chartreux/linux-config/tree/v0.1)) at the last commit of the Manjaro support.

The configuration consists of Shell commands, making it easy to install and customize without having to navigate through settings. Simply copy and paste the commands below. Please note that some part still needs to be done on graphical utilities.

To ensure a smooth setup, I recommend starting with the tools from the [Utilities](#utilities) and [Installers](#installers) sections as they may be required for other parts of the configuration.

## Table of contents

<!-- TOC -->

- [Configuration for Ubuntu 23.04 Gnome minimal](#configuration-for-ubuntu-2304-gnome-minimal)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Global](#global)
    - [Installers](#installers)
      - [apt](#apt)
      - [snap](#snap)
      - [Gnome Software](#gnome-software)
      - [pip](#pip)
      - [pipx](#pipx)
    - [System](#system)
    - [Text](#text)
      - [Spellcheckers](#spellcheckers)
      - [Fonts](#fonts)
  - [Gnome 4](#gnome-4)
    - [Vanilla desktop](#vanilla-desktop)
    - [Extensions](#extensions)
      - [Blur my Shell](#blur-my-shell)
      - [Caffeine](#caffeine)
      - [Dash to Dock](#dash-to-dock)
      - [Disable unredirect fullscreen windows](#disable-unredirect-fullscreen-windows)
      - [Freon](#freon)
      - [Gnome 4x UI Improvements](#gnome-4x-ui-improvements)
      - [Just Perfection](#just-perfection)
      - [Panel corners](#panel-corners)
      - [Resource Monitor](#resource-monitor)
      - [Rounded Window Corners](#rounded-window-corners)
      - [RunCat](#runcat)
      - [Transparent Window Moving](#transparent-window-moving)
    - [Theme](#theme)
    - [Keybindings](#keybindings)
  - [Dev](#dev)
    - [Git](#git)
    - [GitHub](#github)
    - [Applications](#applications)
      - [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code)
      - [Pycharm pro](#pycharm-pro)
    - [Zsh](#zsh)
      - [Oh My Zsh](#oh-my-zsh)
  - [Misc applications](#misc-applications)
    - [Social](#social)
      - [Discord](#discord)
    - [Graphisme](#graphisme)
      - [Gimp](#gimp)
    - [VPN](#vpn)
      - [Proton VPN](#proton-vpn)
    - [Utilities](#utilities)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Global

### Installers

#### apt

The package manager for [Debian](https://www.debian.org/)-based distro (so Ubuntu too).

```sh
# update system
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade && sudo apt autoremove
```

#### [snap](https://ubuntu.com/core/services/guide/snaps-intro)

The official app store provided by [Canonical](https://canonical.com/), where developers can deploy their applications.

```sh
# update
sudo snap refresh
```

#### [Gnome Software](https://apps.gnome.org/app/org.gnome.Software/)

The official Gnome installer, that looks better than the [Canonical's snap store](https://ubuntu.com/core/docs/store-overview) while providing exacly the same apps.

```sh
sudo apt install gnome-software
```

#### [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/)

Package installer for [Python](https://www.python.org/). Many applications rely on it, install it to use them.

```sh
sudo apt install python3-pip
```

#### [pipx](https://pypa.github.io/pipx/)

The recommended method for installing [Python](https://www.python.org/) applications from [pip](#pip). It provides the ability to install each application inside a separate isolated virtual environment, preventing any conflicts or interference with your system's [Python](https://www.python.org/) environment. This approach helps keep your system clean and organized while managing [Python](https://www.python.org/) applications.

```sh
sudo apt install pipx
```

### System

```sh
# enabling TRIM (for better SSD performances)
sudo systemctl enable fstrim.timer
sudo systemctl start fstrim.timer
```

### Text

#### Spellcheckers

```sh
# english
sudo apt install aspell-en
sudo apt install libmythes-1.2-0
sudo apt install mythes-en-us 
sudo snap install languagetool
# french
sudo apt install aspell-fr mythes-fr
```

#### Fonts

```sh
# glacial indifference (a cool font)
wget https://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/download/glacial-indifference --output-document=glacial-indifference.zip
unzip glacial-indifference.zip -d glacial-indifference
font-manager --install glacial-indifference/*.otf
rm -r glacial-indifference.zip glacial-indifference
```

## [Gnome 4](https://www.gnome.org/)

### Vanilla desktop

To get the vanilla Gnome 4 desktop (without the Ubuntu-look) on top of which the riced desktop will be build, execute the following commands:

```sh
sudo apt install gnome-session
sudo apt install gnome-software
# then reboot your computer and select 'Gnome' as a desktop at the logging page instead of 'Ubuntu'
```

### Extensions

```sh
# tool to manage extensions
sudo apt install gnome-tweaks
# tool to install from cli
pipx install gnome-extensions-cli --system-site-packages 
```

#### [Blur my Shell](https://github.com/aunetx/blur-my-shell)

Add a blur effect.

```sh
gext install blur-my-shell@aunetx
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/blur-my-shell/panel/blur false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/blur-my-shell/overview/style-components 3
```

#### [Caffeine](https://github.com/eonpatapon/gnome-shell-extension-caffeine)

Pause screen saving.

```sh
gext install caffeine@patapon.info
```

#### [Dash to Dock](https://micheleg.github.io/dash-to-dock/)

Change the dock to a nicer one.

```sh
gext install dash-to-dock@micxgx.gmail.com
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/multi-monitor true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/intellihide-mode "'ALL_WINDOWS'"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/animation-time 0.1
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/hide-delay 0.1
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/show-apps-at-top true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/show-trash false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/hot-keys false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/middle-click-action "'launch'"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/shift-middle-click-action "'quit'"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/custom-theme-shrink true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/disable-overview-on-startup true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/apply-custom-theme false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/custom-background-color true
dconf write /org/gtk/gtk4/settings/color-chooser/selected-color "(true, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 1.0)"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/transparency-mode "'DYNAMIC'"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/min-alpha 0
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/max-alpha 1
```

#### [Disable unredirect fullscreen windows](https://github.com/kazysmaster/gnome-shell-extension-disable-unredirect)

Patch glitches on fullscreen (e.g. with the dock not hiding).

```sh
gext install unredirect@vaina.lt
```

#### [Freon](https://github.com/UshakovVasilii/gnome-shell-extension-freon)

Display system temperatures (CPU, disk, video card), voltage and fan RPM. I use it to display the maximum temperature of the CPUs.

```sh
gext install freon@UshakovVasilii_Github.yahoo.com 
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/hot-sensors "['__max__']"
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/show-rotationrate false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/show-voltage false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/show-power false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/group-rotationrate false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/freon/group-voltage false
# freon relies on lm-sensors
sudo apt install lm-sensors
sudo sensors-detect  # hit enter and type 'yes' at the end to save to /etc/modules
sudo /etc/init.d/kmod start
```

#### [Gnome 4x UI Improvements](https://github.com/axxapy/gnome-ui-tune)

Improve the overview, mainly bigger workspaces thumbnails and search box hidden when unused.

```sh
gext install gnome-ui-tune@itstime.tech
```

#### [Just Perfection](https://gitlab.gnome.org/jrahmatzadeh/just-perfection)

Hide some UI elements, change the behavior and customize the desktop.

```sh
gext install just-perfection-desktop@just-perfection
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/theme true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/activities-button false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/app-menu-label false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/world-clock false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/weather false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/events-button false
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/startup-status 0
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/animation 4
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/just-perfection/notification-banner-position 2
```

#### [Panel corners](https://github.com/aunetx/panel-corners)

Add round corners to the screen.

```sh
gext install panel-corners@aunetx
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/panel-corners/screen-corners true
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/panel-corners/panel-corners true
```

#### [Resource Monitor](https://github.com/0ry0n/Resource_Monitor/)

Show some useful information about the system (RAM & swap usage here).

```sh
gext install Resource_Monitor@Ory0n
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/cpustatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/decimalsstatus true
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/iconsposition "'left'"
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/diskspacestatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/diskstatsstatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/gpustatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/netethstatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/netwlanstatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/ramunit "'perc'"
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/swapstatus true
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/swapunit "'perc'"
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/thermalcputemperaturestatus false
dconf write /com/github/Ory0n/Resource_Monitor/thermalgputemperaturestatus false
```

#### [Rounded Window Corners](https://github.com/yilozt/rounded-window-corners)

Add rounded corners to apps.

```sh
gext install rounded-window-corners@yilozt
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/rounded-window-corners/global-rounded-corner-settings "{'padding': <{'left': <uint32 1>, 'right': <uint32 1>, 'top': <uint32 1>, 'bottom': <uint32 1>}>, 'keep_rounded_corners': <{'maximized': <false>, 'fullscreen': <false>}>, 'border_radius': <uint32 12>, 'smoothing': <uint32 1>, 'enabled': <true>}"
```

#### [RunCat](https://github.com/win0err/gnome-runcat)

Indicator of CPU usage with a cat whose running speed depends on CPU load.

```sh
gext install runcat@kolesnikov.se
dconf write /org/gnome/shell/extensions/runcat/idle-threshold 15
```

#### [Transparent Window Moving](https://github.com/Noobsai/transparent-window-moving)

Makes the window semi-transparent when moving or resizing.

```sh
gext install transparent-window-moving@noobsai.github.com
```

### Theme

```sh
# Sweet-Dark-v40
gnomelooks get https://www.gnome-look.org/p/1253385/
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface gtk-theme Sweet-Dark-v40
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.preferences theme Sweet-Dark-v40
gsettings set org.gnome.shell.extensions.user-theme name Sweet-Dark-v40
# Sweet-cursors
gnomelooks get https://www.gnome-look.org/p/1393084/
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface cursor-theme Sweet-cursors
```

### Keybindings

```sh
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings close "['<Shift><Super>q']"
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings begin-move "['<Super>m']"
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings maximize "['<Super>Up']"
# use parameters to add 'open terminal' on super+return
# use parameters to add 'disable F1' on F1 (command ':')
```

## Dev

### [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

```sh
git config --global user.name "XXX"
git config --global user.email "XXX@XXX"
git config --global core.editor nano
```

### [GitHub](https://github.com/)

```sh
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your-gh-email@something"
wl-copy < ~/.ssh/id_*.pub
```

Then add it [here](https://github.com/settings/ssh/new).

### Applications

#### [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

Best text editor in my opinion: nice looking, easy and tons of plugins.

```sh
sudo snap install code --classic
```

#### [Pycharm pro](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)

Best Python IDE in my opinion.

```sh
sudo snap install pycharm-professional --classic
```

### [Zsh](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Zsh)

Shell with a lot of cool features and customization.

#### [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/)

Framework to manage [Zsh](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Zsh) configuration.

TODO

## Misc applications

### Social

#### [Discord](https://discord.com/)

```sh
sudo snap install discord
# betterdiscord
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:chronobserver/betterdiscordctl
sudo apt update
sudo apt install betterdiscordctl
betterdiscordctl -i snap install
```

### Graphisme

#### [Gimp](https://www.gimp.org/)

```sh
sudo apt install gimp
```

### VPN

#### [Proton VPN](https://protonvpn.com/)

```sh
pamac update --force-refresh
pamac build protonvpn
```

### Utilities

```sh
# allows to get content from the web
# maybe you will need to downgrade libcurl before: sudo apt install libcurl4=7.88.1-8ubuntu2
sudo apt install curl
# allows to copy texts and images to clipboard in command line
sudo apt install wl-clipboard
# allows to manage fonts
sudo apt install font-manager
# allows to install gnome themes
pipx install gnomelooks
```
